
Week 9: 7/25 - 7/29 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This week James and I began to focus more on the client side of the app.  We realized that we were using 
multiple different frameworks for similar tasks and decided that we needed to simplify our implementation.
We chose to utilize knockoutJS to more of its potential and in doing so we re-factored and redesigned the 
client side code.  For me to progress on the app I had to learn Knockout and since its a framework built
on top of javascript, I learned javascript and Jquery in the process.  This week was very educational for me.
Towards the end of the week James and I began creating selenium UI tests for another internal team of solutions
IQ, team hydra.  This was cool to see because it broadened my perspective on web design. However, I only experienced  
a small part of the selenium testing because James and I realized that since my internship was coming 
to an end, I must finish the last couple of main features on the voting app. I spent the last couple days of this 
week on the app and learning the basics of knockout and Javascript through trial and error.  It was a phenomenal 
experience.

Week 10: 8/1 - 8/5 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This week was the last week of my internship.  I am going to miss interning at solutions IQ.  The people I got to 
work with and learn from were what I believe to be some of the most well versed software developers in their respective 
fields.  This internship was a truly great opportunity and I feel that I have learned a ton.  This last week really 
gave me a chance to apply all that I had learned over the duration of the summer.  I refined the user interface design
and added to the functionality of the app.  The main part of what I added during this week was real-time
web functionality.  I used SignalR to create bi-directional communication between the client and server of my application, 
and wired that communication in to my knockout data-bindings to allow my web pages to automatically update and react to 
changes made by different users.  It was really cool and got me very excited to continue learning all I can about software 
development and the world of computers in general. I began to realize that my future career may also have just become my new hobby.
 